README.md, before:

# Runflow

## What Runflow is?

Runflow is a tool to define and run workflows. To find out more about Runflow, check out [runflow.org](https://runflow.org).

Runflow supports Python (3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9). 
The main audiences are devops, data scientists and hackers.

## What Runflow is Not?

Runflow is not job scheduler. It does not schedule the job runs for you. However, you can combine Runflow with some existing scheduling solutions to run your job periodically, such as APScheduler, crontab, etc.

Runflow is not a job worker. It does not watching workloads from somewhere such as job queue. When the job run is complete, the program exits. Nonetheless, it's quite easy to integrate Runflow with some existing worker solutions, such as Celery, Python-RQ, etc.

## Goals

* **Simple**: We want you feel simple when developing and running workflows. No hazzle.
* **Flexible**: We want it integrate to many existing solutions to broaden its use cases.

## How You Will Use Runflow?

Runflow provides building blocks for defining tasks and workflows, failure recovering, command-line interfaces, etc. 

Typically, you will

* Define your workflows in HCL2 syntax.
* Run your workflows using a simple command `runflow run`.

You can choose whatever technology stack you’re familiar with and glue them using Runflow.

Alternatives: Airflow, Prefect, Oozie, Azkaban.

## Getting Started

### Setup Python Environment

First, prepare a Python environment:

```
$ python3 -mvenv env
$ source venv/bin/activate
```

Run `pip install runflow` to install the latest version from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/runflow/).

```
$ pip install runflow
```

To install the HEAD, run `pip install git+https://github.com/soasme/runflow.git`.

### Write a Flow Spec

Next, write a flow spec. Let’s create a file "example.rf":

```
$ mkdir myrunflow
$ cd myrunflow
$ vi example.rf
```

```
# Content of example.rf
flow "example" {
  variable "content" {
    default = "Hello World!"
  }

  task "command" "echo" {
    command = "echo ${var.content}"
  }
}
```

### Run the Flow

At last, let’s run it.

```
$ runflow run
Hello World!

$ runflow run -var="content=Hello Runflow!"
Hello Runflow!
```

### What’s Next? 

From this point, you have run a minimal example using Runflow. You can head to the Tutorial section for further examples or the How-to guides section for some common tasks in using and configuring Runflow.

Please read the full [documentation](https://docs.runflow.org/en/stable/) hosted on readthedocs.

## Test

To run all of the test cases, please run: `make test`.

## Get in Touch

Please report an issue at: <https://github.com/soasme/runflow/issues>.

Commit message:

docs: use caveat in readme.

README.md, after:

# Runflow

## What Runflow is?

Runflow is a tool to define and run workflows. To find out more about Runflow, check out [runflow.org](https://runflow.org).

Runflow supports Python (3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9). 
The main audiences are devops, data scientists and hackers.

Caveat: Runflow is in early development. Use at your own risk.

## What Runflow is Not?

Runflow is not job scheduler. It does not schedule the job runs for you. However, you can combine Runflow with some existing scheduling solutions to run your job periodically, such as APScheduler, crontab, etc.

Runflow is not a job worker. It does not watching workloads from somewhere such as job queue. When the job run is complete, the program exits. Nonetheless, it's quite easy to integrate Runflow with some existing worker solutions, such as Celery, Python-RQ, etc.

## Goals

* **Simple**: We want you feel simple when developing and running workflows. No hazzle.
* **Flexible**: We want it integrate to many existing solutions to broaden its use cases.

## How You Will Use Runflow?

Runflow provides building blocks for defining tasks and workflows, failure recovering, command-line interfaces, etc. 

Typically, you will

* Define your workflows in HCL2 syntax.
* Run your workflows using a simple command `runflow run`.

You can choose whatever technology stack you’re familiar with and glue them using Runflow.

Alternatives: Airflow, Prefect, Oozie, Azkaban.

## Getting Started

### Setup Python Environment

First, prepare a Python environment:

```
$ python3 -mvenv env
$ source venv/bin/activate
```

Run `pip install runflow` to install the latest version from [PyPI](https://pypi.org/project/runflow/).

```
$ pip install runflow
```

To install the HEAD, run `pip install git+https://github.com/soasme/runflow.git`.

### Write a Flow Spec

Next, write a flow spec. Let’s create a file "example.rf":

```
$ mkdir myrunflow
$ cd myrunflow
$ vi example.rf
```

```
# Content of example.rf
flow "example" {
  variable "content" {
    default = "Hello World!"
  }

  task "command" "echo" {
    command = "echo ${var.content}"
  }
}
```

### Run the Flow

At last, let’s run it.

```
$ runflow run
Hello World!

$ runflow run -var="content=Hello Runflow!"
Hello Runflow!
```

### What’s Next? 

From this point, you have run a minimal example using Runflow. You can head to the Tutorial section for further examples or the How-to guides section for some common tasks in using and configuring Runflow.

Please read the full [documentation](https://docs.runflow.org/en/stable/) hosted on readthedocs.

## Test

To run all of the test cases, please run: `make test`.

## Get in Touch

Please report an issue at: <https://github.com/soasme/runflow/issues>.
