docs/tasks/file-write.md, before:

---
sidebar: auto
---

# File Write Task

File Write task enables writing string content into a file.

Added in v0.3.0.

## Example Usage

Set attribute `filename` and `content`.

<<< @/examples/file_write.hcl

::: details Click me to view the run output
Run:

```bash
$ runflow run file_write.hcl
[2021-06-18 00:23:21,737] "task.file_write.this" is started.
[2021-06-18 00:23:21,740] "task.file_write.this" is successful.

$ cat /tmp/file_write.txt
foo bar
```
:::

## Output Values to Terminal

Output values to terminal can be helpful on troubleshooting.

By using File Write Task with `"/dev/stdout"` as filename, you
can output the information to the terminal.

<<< @/examples/file_write_stdout.hcl

::: details Click me to view the run output
Run:

```
$ runflow run file_write_stdout.hcl
[2021-06-18 00:22:37,270] "task.file_write.this" is started.
{"web_proxy": {"proxy_host": "127.0.0.1", "proxy_port": 8964}}
[2021-06-18 00:22:37,270] "task.file_write.this" is successful.
```
:::

## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `filename` - (Required, str) The path to file to write.
* `content` - (Required, str) The content to write.
* `fs` - (Optional, map) The file system to write. If not set, local filesystem is used. Please check the filesystem for the arguments to set in the map:
  * [Local FileSystem](file-read.md#local-filesystem)
  * [FTP FileSystem](file-read.md#ftp-filesystem)
  * [Git FileSystem](file-read.md#git-filesystem)
  * [GitHub FileSystem](file-read.md#github-filesystem)
  * [Zip FileSystem](file-read.md#zip-filesystem)
  * More documentations for the other filesystems are on the way. :smile:

Commit message:

docs: write binary data using file_write.b64content.

docs/tasks/file-write.md, after:

---
sidebar: auto
---

# File Write Task

File Write task enables writing string content into a file.

Added in v0.3.0.

## Example Usage

Set attribute `filename` and `content`.

<<< @/examples/file_write.hcl

::: details Click me to view the run output
Run:

```bash
$ runflow run file_write.hcl
[2021-06-18 00:23:21,737] "task.file_write.this" is started.
[2021-06-18 00:23:21,740] "task.file_write.this" is successful.

$ cat /tmp/file_write.txt
foo bar
```
:::

## Output Values to Terminal

Output values to terminal can be helpful on troubleshooting.

By using File Write Task with `"/dev/stdout"` as filename, you
can output the information to the terminal.

<<< @/examples/file_write_stdout.hcl

::: details Click me to view the run output
Run:

```
$ runflow run file_write_stdout.hcl
[2021-06-18 00:22:37,270] "task.file_write.this" is started.
{"web_proxy": {"proxy_host": "127.0.0.1", "proxy_port": 8964}}
[2021-06-18 00:22:37,270] "task.file_write.this" is successful.
```
:::

## Write Binary Data

Use argument `b64content` to write binary data into a file.

<<< @/examples/file_write_b64.hcl

::: details Click me to view the run output
Run:

```
$ runflow run examples/file_write_b64.hcl
[2021-07-02 15:01:18,087] "task.file_write.this" is started.
[2021-07-02 15:01:18,089] "task.file_write.this" is successful.

$ cat /tmp/out.txt
hello world
```
:::


## Argument Reference

The following arguments are supported:

* `filename` - (Required, str) The path to file to write.
* `content` - (Optional, str) The content to write. One of `content` and `b64content` must be provided.
* `b64content` - (Optional, str) The base64-encoded content to write. One of `content` and `b64content` must be provided.
* `fs` - (Optional, map) The file system to write. If not set, local filesystem is used. Please check the filesystem for the arguments to set in the map:
  * [Local FileSystem](file-read.md#local-filesystem)
  * [FTP FileSystem](file-read.md#ftp-filesystem)
  * [Git FileSystem](file-read.md#git-filesystem)
  * [GitHub FileSystem](file-read.md#github-filesystem)
  * [Zip FileSystem](file-read.md#zip-filesystem)
  * More documentations for the other filesystems are on the way. :smile:
